# Objectivity

My view on the objective is unusual, but I think clearly correct. With the scientific revolution came a confusion that has remained to this day and is pervasive in all aspects of modern life. That confusion is that the "objective" is how things really are despite the fact that it is a property of descriptions and not the world itself. That is, "objective" is a property of a statement like, "it is raining", and not a property of the weather. What this means is that "the objective", when referred to directly, is the world of description and not the actual world. This is no simply a point about language. It is a point about confusing thought and what thought is about. When we think about the world, we represent the world as being some way, but the thought is not what it is about. This presents us with three objects of analysis: the world, the thought about the world, and the physical brain state which realizes the representational thought. Both the world and the in are actual, concrete things, but the thought is something more difficult to explain. It is in one sense a relation between the brain and the world because it is about the world and yet separated from the world as it is realized by the brain. To put this another way, when you think about a tree in front of you, the presence of the thought is partially explainable by the activity of your brain, but not completely. Analyzing just the brain does not and cannot explain what a thought is about. We must also look to the world itself and find correlations between your brain states and how the world is so that we discover that when you think about a tree, you are in some brain state that correlates with the presence of trees. Once that correlation is discovered, we can infer that you are thinking about a tree when we detect that brain state independently of the world. But that inference is possible only after we compare your brain states with the world. This means that there is nothing essential about your brain having to do with trees, and yet, to you it seems clear when you are thinking about trees that you are in fact thinking about trees. What follows from this is that your thought about the tree is not a tree nor in any way like a tree, but is about a tree in virtue of some kind of a relation to trees in the world such that you are capable of being in such a state when a tree is present and after such exposure, capable of entering into that state again to produce thoughts about such a thing. The aboutness of the brain state is established by your connection to the world. Your thought about the tree, just is in no sense the tree itself. And so it goes, I think, for all thought. No matter how accurate we deam these thoughts to be, they are distinct in kind and identity from what they are about. 

The sciences have achieved a level of precision only possible with mathematical representation. But although this type of representation seems so distinct from the nature of thought, it endures the same problem. There is no equation so accurate that it is identical with what it describes just as there is no thought so accurate that it is identical with what it is about. And so the world of objective description is not identical with the actual concrete world which those thoughts and descriptions and equations are about. It is the realm of the non-actual abstract while the actual world in concrete and particular and in no way descriptive or representational in itself. 

My conclusion is that the objective is actually abstract while the actual is something else entirely. It is tempting to use the dichotomy between the objective and subjective here and thrown my lot in with the idealists. But I see no reason to maintain a mistaken framing simply because it is available. Instead, here, I think it is enough to say that the actual world is fully determinite and concrete and particular in a way that no abstraction can be in principle. Whatever is requierd for concrete existence is something that the abstract lacks as the abstract is nowhere and timeless. Isn't it interesting, then, with this in mind, that the modern state of physics tells us that that space and time are not fundamental, and appear nowhere in the most foundational equations. Perhaps this is because this is exactly what the abstract lacks such that they fail to become actual.
